adds docs (#392)
haddocking/haddock3: docs/continuing_runs.md

# Editing and extending runs

The modularity of HADDOCK3 allows restarting halted runs from a certain step,
extending previous runs with additional steps, and using successful steps as
starting points for new runs. Let's see some examples.

## Restarting a run

> Use the'- restart' flag to restart a HADDOCK3 run. For example, imagine you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the'--restart' flag to restart a HADDOCK3 run. For example, imagine you
```

start a run:

```
haddock3 my-run-config.cfg
```

Unfortunately, something went wrong in step 4 (the fourth module defined in the
configuration file).  You want now to continue the run from where it stopped.
Use the `--restart` followed by `N`, where `N` is an integer corresponding to
the step you which to restart from. **Remember**, haddock steps are 0-indexed
(0, 1, 2, 3, ...); so, `--restart 3` is the fourth step.

```
haddock3 my-run-config.cfg --restart 3
```

> ## Restarting a run with modified parameters

Reviewer 2: I would add here a comment that this will cause all steps >= N to be deleted from the current run

You can profit from the `--restart` option described above to (re)run modules
with modified parameters. For example, if you noticed a parameter was set to
`true` when you wanted it to `false`, or if you wish to increase the sampling
for a given refinement module. Simply edit the configuration file modifying the
parameters for the modules you want to (re)run, in this case, from the fourth
module onwards.

```

> haddock3 my-run-config.cfg --restart 3

Reviewer: Here the command is equal to the previous one, although the concept is quite different. I would emphasize the fact that the config file has been modified (as you do later)
```suggestion
haddock3 my-edited-config.cfg --restart 3
```

```

## Restarting a run with additional steps

You can profit from the `--restart` option to add steps to a run.  For example,
a run has **five** steps and is completed successfully. You now realize you want
to perform an additional refinement (`mdref`) followed by CAPRI evaluation
(`caprieval`) and FCC clustering (`clustfcc`). Add the parameters for those
modules to the configuration file and run haddock:

```
haddock3 my-edited-config.cfg --restart 5
```

We use `--restart 5` because the first new step is the sixth in the new
workflow: the five initial steps and three new steps. Remember `--restart` is
0-indexed.

> ## Starting new runs from previous modules

Reviewer 2: Unclear to me what will happen. In this example you copy 0_topoaa and 4_flexref in a new run directory (what should be the name of it and how will haddock know its name?  I.e. somewhere you need to specify `run_dir`...

Also what should the new config file contain? Only the additional steps? E.g. I want to run `emref`, should the config file only contain that?  And what will be the numbering of the steps in the new run?  0_topoaa, 4_flexref and 5_emref, or are the steps renumbered sequentially from 0?

Author: Addressed

You can also start a new independent run from a successful step of a previous
run. First, create a new run directory and copy the desired step folder from the
successful run, for example, `4_flexref`. **Note:** If the new run uses
CNS-dependent modules, you **also** need to copy the folder corresponding to the
initial topology creation (the `topoaa` module).

Create a configuration file for the new run. **Note:** In this case, you
**don't** need to define the `run_dir` and `molecules` parameters because these
will be taken from the initial step folder. You should not define the parameters
for the module you took as the starting point.

To start the new run:

```

> haddock3 my-new-config.cfg --restart-from-run <path-to-run-dir>

Reviewer: should we be overprecise and specify what is `<path-to-run-dir>`?

Reviewer 2: May-be path-to-old-run-dir instead?

```

## Additional considerations

You can now combine the functionalities explained above in many different
variations.

> Below is some quick Q&A regarding these options:

Reviewer: too colloquial in my opinion, but it's subjective ;)

Reviewer 3: think so too

Author: Why? How would you rephrase it?

# Continuing and editing runs

The modularity of HADDOCK3 allows users to take parts of a run and use them as
starting points for new runs using different configuration files. There are
several ways users can continue or expand previous runs. The index below lists
those possibilities:

1. Restart a previous run from a given step
1. Expanding a previous run from a given step
1. Editing and expanding a previous run from a given step
1. Copy a run to a new folder

> 1. Extend an unknown run

Reviewer 2: What is an unknown run???

Reviewer 2: So you mean a run for which the config file is not present?  Which will kind of never happen since the config file is copied  in the run dir, right?  You have to have some knowledge of what is in a run in order to be able to setup the next steps.

This seems to me an unlikely scenario

Author: No, no. The config is surely there. And as users (human beings), we know what the run looks like and all the parameters. But at the moment of running an extension, the command line itself:

`haddock3 new-extension.cfg --restart <folder>`

would not know about the previous run parameters because these are not defined in `new-extension.cfg`, which would automatically be extracted from the run instead. Sometimes I overuse certain words, sorry. Is it clear the difference between:

`haddock3 new-extension.cfg --restart <folder>`

and

`haddock3 new-extension.cfg --restart <number>`

Those are the two option I wanted to implement in these docs.

> 1. Use a module as a seed for a new run

Reviewer 2: Kind of related to copy a run to a new folder - i.e. copy partially a run to a new folder

Author: Yes. I had them separate to avoid overloading each example. So that all the possibilities become clear and are explained in separate steps. But we can change if in the end we see it's best explained differently

from four.

```
haddock3 edit-config-file.cfg --restart 4
```

This setup would result in:

```
0_topoaa/
1_rigidbody/
2_caprieval/
3_seletop/
4_mdref
data
log
```

As you can see, we have reused the first four modules, up to `3_seletop`, and
replaced the `4_flexref` and `5_caprieval` with a `4_mdref` module. You could
execute as many modules as you wish after `4_mdref`.

# Copy a run to a new folder

Importantly to know, you can execute all previous examples on copies of the
original run. There is no need to rewrite the initial run if you wish to keep
it. For that, copy the original run to a new folder:

```
cp -r run1 run2
```

In the configuration file, edit the `run_dir` parameter to `run2` so it
matches with the newly created folder. Then, proceed by editing the
configuration file as discussed in the previous examples. Finally,

```
haddock3 new-config-file-run2.cfg --restart N
```

where `N` is the step you wish to start from, as explained previously. Notably,
you do not need to copy the whole folder when copying the original run. Instead,
you can copy only the modules folders you wish to maintain plus the `data`
folder.

> # Extend an unknown run

Reviewer 2: Again unknown in this case is not the proper naming. But this use case should be useful indeed.

Ideally if you want to only run caprieval, you might want to run it for various stages of the run... i.e. insert it between existing steps.

Author: Therefore, we need the capacity to add intermediate **analysis** stages. Which would require the renaming of the consequent folders. Sounds good?

Reviewer 2: Yes - but in that case a restart should not delete existing steps, only add the missing ones...

Author: Agree. Likely we would need another flag different from `--restart`.

modules you used as seed and editing the `run_dir` parameter to the new folder,
and execute:

```
haddock3 new-config.cfg --restart 2
```

If your seed module is directly the `topoaa` module, use `--restart 1`.

2) Create a new configuration file containing only the parameters for the
modules you want to run and execute:

```
haddock3 new-config.cfg --restart <run_dir>
```

where the `run_dir` is the new directory containing the seeding modules.

# Final considerations

When extending or continuing a run from a new configuration file, all the
modules' folders and their content will be updated to the corresponding position
and leading zeros. For example, the new takes steps 0 and 4 from a run with more
than 10 modules (note the leading double digit numbers):

```
00_topoaa/
04_flexref/
data/
```

If you extend this run with a series of `caprieval`, `emref`, `caprieval`, and
`clustfcc`, the final output will be:

```
0_topoaa/
1_flexref/
2_caprieval/
3_emref/
4_caprieval/
5_clustfcc/
```

Where `0_topoaa` and `1_flexref` are the original folders renamed. The files
within these folders were also edited to ensure paths compatibility and the

> consistency of paths and the run as a whole.

Reviewer 2: Additional consideration:

Provide an option to copy specific modules from an existing run to a new run. E.g.

I want to take over modules 0 1 4 and 8. Copy those and renumber then sequentially (probably needed)

Author: Okay. That's a good functionality. I will add it.

# Continuing and editing runs

> The modularity of HADDOCK3 allows users to take parts of a run and use them as

Author: Does it sound like that? But yes, I meant what you wrote. I will reword it as you suggested.

starting points for new runs using different configuration files. There are
several ways users can continue or expand previous runs. The index below lists
those possibilities:

1. Restart a previous run from a given step
1. Expanding a previous run from a given step
1. Editing and expanding a previous run from a given step
1. Copy a run to a new folder
1. Extend a run with a partial config
1. Use a module as a seed for a new run
1. Final considerations

# Restart a previous run from a given step

This option allows you to restart a run from a specific step. It is useful when
you want to repeat part of the run or to continue a broken run without needing
to rerun all successful steps.

Let's imagine you execute a run with six steps (modules).

```
haddock3 my-haddock3-config-file.cfg
```

If the run completes successfully, the run directory shows as follows:

```
0_topoaa/
1_rigidbody/
2_caprieval/
3_seletop/
4_flexref/
5_caprieval/
data
log
```

Now, you noticed you introduced the wrong values for the `4_flexref` module.
Therefore, you want to repeat the run only for `4_flexref` onwards without

> repeating the previous successful steps. For that, you should do the following:

Author: Sounds good :+1:

from four.

```
haddock3 edit-config-file.cfg --restart 4
```

This setup would result in:

```
0_topoaa/
1_rigidbody/
2_caprieval/
3_seletop/
4_mdref
data
log
```

As you can see, we have reused the first four modules, up to `3_seletop`, and
replaced the `4_flexref` and `5_caprieval` with a `4_mdref` module. You could
execute as many modules as you wish after `4_mdref`.

# Copy a run to a new folder

Importantly to know, you can execute all previous examples on copies of the
original run. There is no need to rewrite the initial run if you wish to keep
it. For that, copy the original run to a new folder:

```
cp -r run1 run2
```

In the configuration file, edit the `run_dir` parameter to `run2` so it
matches with the newly created folder. Then, proceed by editing the
configuration file as discussed in the previous examples. Finally,

```
haddock3 new-config-file-run2.cfg --restart N
```

where `N` is the step you wish to start from, as explained previously. Notably,
you do not need to copy the whole folder when copying the original run. Instead,
you can copy only the modules folders you wish to maintain plus the `data`
folder.

> # Extend a run with a partial config

Author: It means you can write a config just with the information of the new modules you want to add to the run and execute those additions. I will try to rephrase

HADDOCK3 allows you to extend a run without previous knowledge of the run
configuration and using just a partial configuration file.
For example, you have several runs for which you **now** want to
perform a CAPRI evaluation at the last step. How to do this?

Create a new configuration file containing just the `caprieval` module, or
whatever and many modules you desire. For example:

```toml
[caprieval]
reference_fname = "reference-structure.pdb"
```

Now, run the configuration file by giving the `--restart` flag the path of the
previous run directory:

```
haddock3 caprieval.cfg --restart <previous-run-directory>
```

In this case, the configuration file does not need to contain any information
about the molecules used as input or the previous modules. HADDOCK3 will just
execute the new modules on top of the previous run.

> # Use a module as a seed for a new run

Author: I hope this is solved in aa8bcce30bdd264d5bba8136c0181dad64b83185

Imagine you want to take a specific module of a successful run as the starting
point of a new run. Copy the `data`, the `topoaa`, and the desired module to a
new folder. You can also use the `topoaa` as the initial module. At this point,
you can start the new run using both strategies we have detailed so far:

1) edit the original configuration file keeping only the information for the
modules you used as seed and editing the `run_dir` parameter to the new folder,
and execute:

```
haddock3 new-config.cfg --restart 2
```

> If your seed module is directly the `topoaa` module, use `--restart 1`.

Author: Yes, I thought about the `seed` terminology but didn't have a better term at that time. I will look for a better word, indeed.

# Restart, editing, and extending a previous run from a given step

This option allows you to restart a run from a specific step. It is
useful when you want to repeat part of the run or to continue a broken
run without needing to rerun all successful steps.

Let's imagine you execute a run with six steps (modules).

```
haddock3 my-haddock3-config-file.cfg
```

If the run completes successfully, the run directory shows as follows:

```
0_topoaa/
1_rigidbody/
2_caprieval/
3_seletop/
4_flexref/
5_caprieval/
data
log
```

Now, imagine that later in your analysis, you notice that you used the
wrong parameters for the flexible refinement (`4_flexref`) stage,
setting `randremoval=true` instead of `randremoval=false`. Therefore,
you want to repeat the run only for `4_flexref` onwards without
repeating the previous successful steps. For that, edit the
configuration file according to your new preferences, and run:

```
haddock3 my-haddock3-config-file.cfg --restart 4
```

This operation will delete modules' folders `4_` onwards and repeat
those steps following the configurations in the (new) configuration
file. You must run the `haddock3` command from within the same directory

> as you did for the original run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in which you launched the original run.
```

As you can see, this option allows you to **restart** or **repeat** a
run from a specific step using the **original** configuration file or to
**modify** a run by updating the parameters for the steps you want to

> rerun.

Reviewer 3: This is still confusing, if you use the original you restart, if you use the modified you repeat? What is the difference between restart and repeat or here is just a synonymy?

> Likewise, we can use the `--restart` functionality to **extend** a run

Reviewer 3: So its, `restart`, `repeat` and `extend` all with the same option?

Navigate back to the same folder you executed the previous runs and:

```
haddock3 expanded-configuration-file.cfg --restart 6
```

In this case, the `--restart` option takes the value `6` because we want to
continue the run from step 6, the new `emref` step. This would result in:

```
0_topoaa/
1_rigidbody/
2_caprieval/
3_seletop/
4_flexref/
5_caprieval/
6_emref/
7_caprieval/
8_clustfcc/
data
log
```

As you can see, you can use `--restart` to edit and rerun modules, to
add new modules, **or do both at the same time**.

# Copy a run to a new folder, and continue from there

You can execute all previous examples on copies of the original run.
There is no need to rewrite the initial run if you wish to keep it. For
that, copy the original run to a new folder:

```
cp -r run1 run2
```

You can also copy the run to different folders because HADDOCK3 treats
internal paths as relative paths. Therefore, modules can communicate
with each other regardless of the absolute location of the run
directory. The same applies to the installation requirements. Provided
the installation process was the same, you can copy HADDOCK3 run over

> different machines. 

Reviewer 3: Are you sure about this one? I've tried it once with a previous version - maybe its fixed now, from my workstation to the cluster and it did not work.

Author: It should work now, provided the haddock3 environment is installed. all haddock3 libraries are taken from the system installation. The run does not care about where things are installed, as long as they are accessible in the system, which they will be if installed following the INSTALL.md instructions.

In the configuration file, edit the `run_dir` parameter to `run2` to
match the newly created folder. `run1` and `run2` are arbitrary names.

> **Important:** The `run_dir` path must point to the new run directoy

Author: Otherwise, how does haddock knows where the run dir is?

**relatively** from where you will run the configuration file.
Otherwise, use an absolute path.

Then, proceed by editing the configuration file as discussed in the
previous examples. Finally, run:

```
haddock3 new-config-file-run2.cfg --restart N
```

where `N` is the step you wish to start from, as explained previously.

> Notably, you do not need to copy the whole folder when copying the
> original run. Instead, you can copy only the steps' folders you wish to
> maintain plus the `data` folder. For example, if the original run has
> ten modules, but you wish to keep only the first three, you can copy
> only those first three modules to the new run folder.

Reviewer: In my opinion this sentence is a bit convoluted.
```suggestion
There is no need to keep the whole original run when copying, 
but only those folders you wish to maintain plus the `data` directory.
```

**now** want to perform a CAPRI evaluation at the last step, or apply a
new scoring or clustering module recently released or a different new
minimization protocol.

How can you execute new modules on top of successful runs without
referring to their original configuration file?

Create a new configuration file containing **only** the `caprieval`
module, or whatever new and many modules you desire. For example:

```toml
[caprieval]
reference_fname = "reference-structure.pdb"
```

Now, run the configuration file by giving the `--restart` flag the path
of the previous run directory, instead of an integer `N`:

```
haddock3 caprieval.cfg --restart <previous-run-directory>
```

In this case, the configuration file does not need to contain any
information about the molecules used as input or the previous modules.
Instead, HADDOCK3 will execute the new modules following the run's last
module.

# Final considerations

When extending or continuing a run from a new configuration file, all the
modules' folders and their content will be updated to the corresponding position
and leading zeros. For example, the new takes steps 0 and 4 from a run with more

> than 10 modules (note the leading double digit numbers):

Reviewer: This is a bit verbose and unclear to me..Could you rephrase it?
